Now we had a look at the positioning of the grid elements,
sometimes you also want to position the entire grid and with that, I don't mean to container, you can
of course position that differently for example by using position absolute and moving it somewhere, by
putting it into a flexbox, by putting it into another grid, this is also possible.
But I mean that the grid might have a certain height which is not filled by all its rows and columns,
so height and width actually which is not filled.
Let me demonstrate this.
I'll add a width of 500 pixels here and now
let's remove all the auto assignments,
let's also shrink the column sizes to 20%, so that it doesn't add up to 100,
so there will be some empty space
and on this row value here, we're not going to use auto but the maximum value for that row let's say is actually
20rem.
Now with that all set, let's maybe increase that a bit more to 800 height and width, let's save that and
reload
and now we got a grid container as you can see which is bigger than its content.
Now the question is, where do you want to position the entire content?
So I don't mean the elements in their tracks or in their areas,
I mean the entire grid content. Now for this, you get two additional properties
and the first one is justify content, this positions the entire grid on the x-axis,
you can put this or set this to center for example. If you reload,
you see the grid is now is centered in the container area.
You also have start which is the default as you saw and end which unsurprisingly moves it to the end of
its container area.
You also can assign stretch here, which actually leads to the same result as start though.
So this does not stretch the values because it doesn't overwrite the row and column sizes you
defined in your template settings here.
Now this is the positioning along the x-axis,
let's maybe set this back to center.
Now we can also position it on the y-axis of course
and for this, we got align content.
So you probably see a pattern, justify at the beginning means x-axis or within a row, align at the beginning
means y-axis or along the columns
and here of course you've got the usual suspects. You can set align content to center and if you do
that and you reload,
now the grid is centered vertically in its container
and of course you also got start and end as alternatives. So start is basically the default you started
with and end will move it to the end of its container.
Now this can be highly useful in cases where you simply have a grid which might not necessarily fill
the entire space you reserved for it and where you want to ensure that it's still positioned in a certain
way within that container.
So justify content and align content are your friends then.